Module 1 Project
DIRECTIONS
If you haven't recorded your attendance today, please do so now by navigating to https://learn.lambdaschool.com/attendance (Links to an external site.)

These tasks are to be completed during the project time for your track, in the afternoons after the lunch break. A link to your assignment will still need to be submitted on the Module Retrospective Form (Links to an external site.) at the end of the day. 

REQUIRED RESOURCES
Zoom, Slack and FrontDesk
Lambda School is a remote learning environment, so it’s important that you’re familiar with our online tools for the first day of class. Read through the Slack, Zoom and FrontDesk sections in the student guide (Links to an external site.)

Understanding the Tech Field
While you are still many months away from your job search, there are things that you can start to think about now that will get you excited about opportunities after you complete the Lambda School curriculum, and help you prepare to hit your job search running.


Nearly every industry hires technical roles, even if that company is not in the tech sector. This means that if you are passionate about a certain field, it’s likely there will be opportunities in that field that align with your skills! But first, it’s important to know the difference between different types of companies.

 

What to expect at a startup:

Size: generally <100 employees (but number of employees may range)
Expect to learn by doing- you’ll have the chance to wear many different hats and go outside your job description
They tend to be fast-paced, with your work being critical to the company’s success. This means more pressure but also more opportunity for growth
Job security may not be as stable while they work to get a foothold in the market
Traits needed: self-starter, adaptable, able to juggle many priorities in a fast-paced environment
Salaries might be lower, but expect perks and equity
Teams are smaller, more flexible, and overall culture trends towards casual

What to expect at a mid-sized company:

Size: 100-500 employees
Typically more structured roles, more shared responsibility among teams
Expect to find more established systems for benefits, promotions, etc. and clear path for growth
More employees means more opportunities for mentorship from more senior employees
Salaries may be more competitive than a startup, as are benefits, but may lack some of the “perks” and equity
Culture will depend on location and company focus

What to expect at a corporate company:

Size: 500+ employees
You might feel like one employee of many rather than individually critical to the company’s success, but this can mean less intense of a work environment 
Salaries may be higher, generally have good benefits, expect to earn and accrue PTO
Hiring process can take longer, and roles may be more competitive
Teams are more structured with stricter hierarchies, clear paths for growth, and frequent openings
Great opportunities for mentorship, and some companies may even have established staff mentorship programs or leadership training 
The name recognition of a larger company can be a boost, especially early in your career
Culture will depend on location and company focus
 

Maintaining expectations

Your first job in your new field is probably not going to be your dream job! That is ok, and normal- your first job should be an opportunity for you to learn and get a feel for your job field.
Be targeted in your job research and job search, but remain open to a variety of opportunities- avoid saying no to an interview! You never know what you might learn about a company that’s appealing, or what other opportunities might open up.
Willingness to relocate could open up a lot more doors: we know this is not possible for everyone given family, health needs, or other life commitments, so make sure you discuss this with important people to see if relocating could be an option.
Remote jobs are more scarce, and not ideal for your first job in the field. Similarly, we understand that remote roles might be the right option for students, especially folks who live far away from major economic centers. Being on site with your boss and team provides an important learning opportunity, so if possible, stick with in-person opportunities earlier in your career.
Stay in your first job at least a year to build your credibility. Employers get concerned if they see lots of short-term jobs on your resume. Even if you don’t love your job, try to stick with it for a year to build that experience and credibility.
The exception is if you work in a negative work environment that is seriously impacting your health or well-being! We don’t recommend being miserable for the sake of experience!
Rejections, unfortunately, are part of the process- almost everyone experiences them. Do your best to learn from them and move on!
PROJECT INSTRUCTIONS
Access this Google Doc Module 1 Project Instructions (Links to an external site.)

Go to File and “Make a Copy” to duplicate this document so you can edit it directly. You may need to be logged into a Google Account to have this option.

To submit your assignment, first,  get a shareable link. Choose the blue Share button on the top right. Choose “Get Shareable Link” from the top right of the pop-up box. Click on the “copy link” button. Make sure that you have changed the settings so that anyone with the link can "view". Copy and paste this link into your Module Retrospective Form. (Links to an external site.)

Type in Your Name.   For the box that says What did you study? choose the name of this module. In Where can we find your project? Insert the shareable link from the Google Doc. 

Screen Shot 2020-08-21 at 12.04.36 PM.png